README.md, before:

# Abitbol

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/wanadev/abitbol.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/wanadev/abitbol)
[![NPM Version](http://img.shields.io/npm/v/abitbol.svg?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/abitbol)
[![License](http://img.shields.io/npm/l/abitbol.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/wanadev/abitbol/blob/master/LICENSE)


Abitbol is a small Javascript library that provides consistent/easy to use classes for Node.js and web browsers. It is heavily inspired by  Armin Ronacher's [Classy][] library, but extends its possibilities.

Built-in functionalities:

* Simple inheritance
* Simple way to call a super class method
* Simple way to declare static properties
* Handful mixin
* Computed properties generated from getters and setters

> The classiest javascript class library of the world  
> -- George Abitbol

![George Abitbol](http://pix.toile-libre.org/upload/original/1439302256.png)


## Getting Started

### Standalone Version (browser)

To use the standalone version, first [download the latest zip][dl-zip] or clone the git repository:

    git clone https://github.com/wanadev/abitbol.git

Then, just include one of the javascript of the `dist/` folder:

```html
<script src="dist/abitbol.js"></script>
```
    
### NPM

To use Abitbol with Node.js (or in the browser using Browserify), first install the library:

    npm install --save abitbol

Then require it when needed:

```javascript
var Class = require("abitbol");
```


## Using Abitbol

### Defining Classes

```javascript
var Vehicle = Class.$extend({
    __init__: function (color) {
        this.color = color;
        this.speed = 0;
    },
    
    move: function (speed) {
        this.speed = speed;
    },
    
    stop: function () {
        this.speed = 0;
    }
});
```

### Creating Subclases

```javascript
var Car = Vehicle.$extend({
    __init__: function (color) {
        this.$super(color);
        this.maxSpeed = 180;
    },
    
    move: function (speed) {
        speed = Math.min(speed, this.maxSpeed);
        this.$super(speed);
    },
    
    horn: function () {
        alert("BEEP BEEP");
    }
});

var Truck = Car.$extend({
    __init__: function (color) {
        this.$super(color);
        this.maxSpeed = 90;
    },

    horn: function () {
        alert("HONK HONK");
    }
});
```

### Using Your Classes

```javascript
var mustang = new Car("red");
mustang.move(120);
mustang.horn();

var myTruck = new Truck("blue");
myTruck instanceof Car  // true
```


### Computed Properties (Getters and Setters)

Abitbol allows you to creates computed properties simply by defining getters and setters:

```javascript
var Person = Class.$extend({

    // This will create the Person.fullName property
    
    getFullName: function () {
        return this.$data.fullName;
    },
    
    setFullName: function (value) {
        this.$data.fullName = value;
    },
    
    // This will create the Person.age property
    
    getAge: function () {
        return this.$data.age;
    },
    
    setAge: function (value) {
        this.$data.age = value;
    },
    
    // This will create the read-only Person.old property
    
    isOld: function () {
        return (this.age > 75);
    },
    
    // This will create the read-only Person.woodenLeg property
    
    hasWoodenLeg: function () {
        return (this.fullName == "Long John Silver");
    }
})
```

and playing with those properties is straightforward:

```javascript
var george = new Person();

george.fullName = "George Abitbol";
george.age = 50;

console.log(george.fullName);       // "George Abitbol"
console.log(george.getFullName());  // "George Abitbol"
console.log(george.old);            // false
console.log(george.isOld());        // false

george.setAge(80);

console.log(george.old);            // true
```


### Class API

#### `Class.$extend(properties)`

Creates a new class that extends the given class.

#### `Class.$class` / `this.$class`

The class object for this instance.

#### `this.$super()`

From a method: invokes the corresponding super class method.

#### `this.$name`

From a method: the current method's name.

#### `Class.$map` / `this.$map`

An object that contains the class' map (list of methods, attributes,...).

```javascript
{
    attributes: [
        "attr1",
        "attr2",
        ...
    ],
    methods: [
        "meth1",
        "meth2",
        ...
    ],
    computedProperties: {
        prop1: {
            get: "getProp1",
            set: "setProp1"
        },
        prop2: {
            get: "isProp2"
        },
        ...
    }
}
```

#### `this.$data`

An object to store ~~private~~ internal properties (to store computed properties' values for example).

#### `Class.__init__()`

The constructor method.

#### `Class.__include__`

A list of objects that contains properties to mix in the class.

```javascript

var Boat = Vehicle.$extend({
    __include__: [{
        horn: Truck.prototype.horn
    }],
    
    navigate: function (speed) {
        this.move(speed);
    }
});
```

#### `Class.__classvars__`

An object containing static properties of the class.

```javascript
var MyClass = Class.$extend({
    __classvars__: {
        staticAttribute: "value",
        staticMethod: function () {}
    }
});
```


## Changelog

* **0.1.0**: Equivalent to Classy (except `Class.$classyVersion`, `Class.$withData()`, `Class.$noConflict()` that are not implemented).


[Classy]: https://github.com/mitsuhiko/classy
[dl-zip]: https://github.com/wanadev/abitbol/archive/master.zip

Commit message:

this. added for getter/setter

README.md, after:

# Abitbol

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/wanadev/abitbol.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/wanadev/abitbol)
[![NPM Version](http://img.shields.io/npm/v/abitbol.svg?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/abitbol)
[![License](http://img.shields.io/npm/l/abitbol.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/wanadev/abitbol/blob/master/LICENSE)


Abitbol is a small Javascript library that provides consistent/easy to use classes for Node.js and web browsers. It is heavily inspired by  Armin Ronacher's [Classy][] library, but extends its possibilities.

Built-in functionalities:

* Simple inheritance
* Simple way to call a super class method
* Simple way to declare static properties
* Handful mixin
* Computed properties generated from getters and setters

> The classiest javascript class library of the world  
> -- George Abitbol

![George Abitbol](http://pix.toile-libre.org/upload/original/1439302256.png)


## Getting Started

### Standalone Version (browser)

To use the standalone version, first [download the latest zip][dl-zip] or clone the git repository:

    git clone https://github.com/wanadev/abitbol.git

Then, just include one of the javascript of the `dist/` folder:

```html
<script src="dist/abitbol.js"></script>
```
    
### NPM

To use Abitbol with Node.js (or in the browser using Browserify), first install the library:

    npm install --save abitbol

Then require it when needed:

```javascript
var Class = require("abitbol");
```


## Using Abitbol

### Defining Classes

```javascript
var Vehicle = Class.$extend({
    __init__: function (color) {
        this.color = color;
        this.speed = 0;
    },
    
    move: function (speed) {
        this.speed = speed;
    },
    
    stop: function () {
        this.speed = 0;
    }
});
```

### Creating Subclases

```javascript
var Car = Vehicle.$extend({
    __init__: function (color) {
        this.$super(color);
        this.maxSpeed = 180;
    },
    
    move: function (speed) {
        speed = Math.min(speed, this.maxSpeed);
        this.$super(speed);
    },
    
    horn: function () {
        alert("BEEP BEEP");
    }
});

var Truck = Car.$extend({
    __init__: function (color) {
        this.$super(color);
        this.maxSpeed = 90;
    },

    horn: function () {
        alert("HONK HONK");
    }
});
```

### Using Your Classes

```javascript
var mustang = new Car("red");
mustang.move(120);
mustang.horn();

var myTruck = new Truck("blue");
myTruck instanceof Car  // true
```


### Computed Properties (Getters and Setters)

Abitbol allows you to creates computed properties simply by defining getters and setters:

```javascript
var Person = Class.$extend({

    // This will create the Person.fullName property
    
    getFullName: function () {
        return this.$data.fullName;
    },
    
    setFullName: function (value) {
        this.$data.fullName = value;
    },
    
    // This will create the Person.age property
    
    getAge: function () {
        return this.$data.age;
    },
    
    setAge: function (value) {
        this.$data.age = value;
    },
    
    // This will create the read-only Person.old property
    
    isOld: function () {
        return (this.age > 75);
    },
    
    // This will create the read-only Person.woodenLeg property
    
    hasWoodenLeg: function () {
        return (this.fullName == "Long John Silver");
    }
})
```

and playing with those properties is straightforward:

```javascript
var george = new Person();

george.fullName = "George Abitbol";
george.age = 50;

console.log(george.fullName);       // "George Abitbol"
console.log(george.getFullName());  // "George Abitbol"
console.log(george.old);            // false
console.log(george.isOld());        // false

george.setAge(80);

console.log(george.old);            // true
```


### Class API

#### `Class.$extend(properties)`

Creates a new class that extends the given class.

#### `Class.$class` / `this.$class`

The class object for this instance.

#### `this.$super()`

From a method: invokes the corresponding super class method.

#### `this.$name`

From a method: the current method's name.

#### `this.computedPropertyName`

From a getter/setter method: the name of the related computed property.

#### `Class.$map` / `this.$map`

An object that contains the class' map (list of methods, attributes,...).

```javascript
{
    attributes: [
        "attr1",
        "attr2",
        ...
    ],
    methods: [
        "meth1",
        "meth2",
        ...
    ],
    computedProperties: {
        prop1: {
            get: "getProp1",
            set: "setProp1"
        },
        prop2: {
            get: "isProp2"
        },
        ...
    }
}
```

#### `this.$data`

An object to store ~~private~~ internal properties (to store computed properties' values for example).

#### `Class.__init__()`

The constructor method.

#### `Class.__include__`

A list of objects that contains properties to mix in the class.

```javascript

var Boat = Vehicle.$extend({
    __include__: [{
        horn: Truck.prototype.horn
    }],
    
    navigate: function (speed) {
        this.move(speed);
    }
});
```

#### `Class.__classvars__`

An object containing static properties of the class.

```javascript
var MyClass = Class.$extend({
    __classvars__: {
        staticAttribute: "value",
        staticMethod: function () {}
    }
});
```


## Changelog

* **0.1.0**: Equivalent to Classy (except `Class.$classyVersion`, `Class.$withData()`, `Class.$noConflict()` that are not implemented).


[Classy]: https://github.com/mitsuhiko/classy
[dl-zip]: https://github.com/wanadev/abitbol/archive/master.zip
